+++
title = "Fun Links 2016-02-26"
categories = ["Fun links"]
date = 2016-02-26T18:46:58Z
tags = ["tools"]
+++
Today my links fall into the category of "dev tools". Some may even lean into the "DevOps" territory. They are all language agnostic but mostly focus on web applications.

**LaunchDarkly**  
https://launchdarkly.com/  
LaunchDarkly calls itself "feature flags as a service" which seems like as good a description as any. It is a service that you integrate with your web application to allow you to roll out new features slowly, tracking the results. You can use it to do A/B testing, beta releases, or even to provide premium features to some users. Essentially, a formalized means to provide feature toggling through a nice UI. Most big sites build their applications this way; with new, in-development, code deployed for weeks or months before it is ready to be turned on.

**StopLight**  
https://stoplight.io/  
StopLight is an API design and testing service. It provides visual tools to build your API and can export the specification in a few different formats including the popular Open API Initiative (Swagger) format. Also, it can also be used to make calls into your existing API as a test client. And it can use Prism to record and playback or mock out an API for testing as a test server. All said a full feature API toolkit.

**diff-so-fancy**  
https://github.com/so-fancy/diff-so-fancy  
Who says appearances don't matter? If you are looking to tidy (and fancy) up your git diffs, then you need `diff-so-fancy`. It is a visual filter which builds on other tools to provide in-line character diff highlighting and better file separation. You can use diff-so-fancy once-off, or set it as your default for all diffs.

